[Music]
welcome to b2b marketing and more with
your host Pam dinner as leading
marketing and sales enablement
strategist keynote speaker and author
Pam created this podcast to share of
professional experience and insights and
help you to be a great fee to be
marketer you enjoy the podcast please
share it with your colleagues and leave
a review on iTunes now let's get started
[Music]
hi everyone thank you so much for tuning
in to my podcast so a young and
passionate marketers ask me a very
simple question what is b2b marketing
and how he is b2b marketing different
than p2c you know that's actually a good
question I kind of take that term for
granted and never really think about it
until now so let me share that with you
what I know about b2b marketing b2b
marketing used to be called trade
advertising or industrial advertising
many years ago over time marketers
changed the term - b2b marketing which
sounds whole lot more classier
business-to-business refers to products
that people buy for their companies not
for themselves while b2c business to
consumer focus on selling products for
personal use to individuals many people
may things that marketing just marketing
basically we are marketing products and
services anyway so why does it matter if
it's b2b or b2c well marketers use the
same channels to promote products
regardless of whether it's for business
or consumer products marketing channels
are the same but the approaches to
business and consumers are different so
there are five differences that guide
the approaches all right number one is
product complexity business products
such as machinery or software tend to be
a whole lot more complicated it's not
like shampoos clothes or blankets which
are pretty self-explanatory for business
solutions you need to explain why your
products or services do for a company
number two dollar amount the business
services tend to be more expensive than
individual services the initial dollar
investment is bigger than typical
consumer products such as consumer
electronics or furniture number three
decision making because dollar amounts
are so much bigger many people in a
company may need to be involved or have
a say in the buying decisions
therefore committee may be formed to
determine what professional product they
need to buy so that's different from a
consumer product well the decision can
be made by one or two people in a family
number for purchase cycle as the dollar
amount is bigger and more people are
involved the purchase cycle is longer
and it's a whole lot more complexed than
simply using cash or credit card to buy
so a purchase order Pio
may be needed when a company is ready to
buy number five buyers versus end users
here's another key difference b2c focus
on marketing to consumers for b2b
marketing you may need to market to
people who buy technologies and the end
users who use the products for example a
piece of software you may need to work
with IT departments but the end users
may be HR marketing sales or product
teams so for b2b marketers you need to
think about who you might get to I'm
sure there are many other differences
that you can call out but these five key
elements shape the b2b marketing
approach since the product is usually
more complicated you need to create
content to educate potential customers
about your products and the reason they
should consider or purchase them
that's where content marketing comes to
play because the dollar value is big and
the purchase cycle is long you need to
nurture your customers and reach out to
them strategically and frequently to
keep your products on the top of their
minds so to do thy you need to have
marketing outreach that facilitates the
customers purchase journey you need to
articulate customers purchase journey
and have a plan to engage them at
different stages giving that dollar
is big there may be many cooks in the
kitchen like I said earlier committee
cells may need to reach out to different
influencers and decision-makers
simultaneously therefore marketers need
to stay close to sales to a system in a
cell rating the sales engagement from
creating messaging talking points down
to creating customized outreach and the
campaigns for specific accounts and
that's where account based marketing
Oracle marketing comes from this may not
be something that you will do for
consumer marketing the one of the key
characteristics of b2b marketing is that
you need to work closely with your sales
team many people think b2b marketing is
boring well it can be but you can also
be fun if you know what you're doing
there's a storytelling and a creative
aspect of it but everything you do needs
to be purposeful and intentional so here
are quick takeaways number one be to be
empty to see may use the same marketing
channels but approaches and the
processes are different number two five
key elements that drive different
approaches between b2b and b2c ZAR
product complexity dollar amount
decision-making purchase cycles and end
users versus buyers number three for b2b
it's even more important to stay close
to product and a sales team knowing your
products well and understanding how your
sales team works are critical I'm
talking critical to the success of a b2b
marketing I'm a b2b gal through and
through and I love you to be marketing
and working closely with direct indirect
sales forces so share your marketing
challenges with me on Twitter or
LinkedIn if you like what you hear
please like and subscribe my podcast on
iTunes I would very much appreciate that
again let's continue to learn from each
other okay
have a great day if you enjoyed this
podcast we share it with your colleagues
and we review on iTunes
[Music]